Windows Kernel Vulnerabilities:
USBPcap Case Study
Once again, this section of the
module will not be reproducible
on the dedicated student client.
In this section, we will demonstrate
a privilege escalation
that relies on a kernel
driver vulnerability.
When attempting to exploit
system-level software,
such as drivers or the kernel itself,
we must pay careful attention
to several pieces of important information
including the operating system,
version, and architecture.
Failure to accurately identify
these factors can trigger
a Blue Screen of Death
while running the exploit.
As a first step, we will
determine the version
and architecture of
the operating system.
Our target is running Windows
7 SP1 on an x86 processor.
At this point, we could search
for a native kernel vulnerability
for Windows 7 SP1 x86 and
use it to elevate our privileges.
However, since third-party driver
exploits are more common,
we should always attempt to
investigate this attack surface first.
To do this, we’ll first enumerate
the drivers that are installed on
the system using the driverquery command,
specifying /v for verbose output:
There are mostly Microsoft-installed
drivers listed
and a few third party
drivers such as USBPcap.
Even though the driver
is marked as stopped,
we may still be able
to interact with it,
because it is loaded in
the kernel memory space.
Let’s search for USBPcap
in the Exploit Database:
Searchspoilt lists one
exploit for USBPcap.
Let’s have a closer look at it.
This particular exploit targets our
operating system version and architecture.
However, it depends on a specific
version of the driver,
namely USBPcap version 1.1.0.0, which
is installed along with Wireshark 2.2.5.
Let’s take a look at our target
system to see if that
particular version of
the driver is installed.
To begin, we will list the contents
of the Program Files directory,
to see if it contains a
USBPcap directory:
It appears there is a USBPcap
directory in Program Files.
Let’s inspect the contents of
the USBPcap.inf file
in the USBPcap directory to learn
more about the driver version:
Based on the version information, our
driver should be vulnerable.
Before we try to exploit it, we first
have to compile the exploit.
Compiling C/C++ Code on Windows
The vast majority of exploits
targeting kernel-level vulnerabilities
are written in a low-level programming
language such as C or C++
and needs to be compiled first.
Ideally, we would compile the code on the
platform version it is intended to run on.
We will compile it on our
Windows client using Mingw-w64,
which provides a GCC
compiler on Windows.
Since our Windows client has
Mingw-w64 pre-installed,
we can run the mingw-w64.bat script
that sets-up the PATH environment
variable for the gcc executable.
Once the script is finished,
we can execute gcc.exe
to confirm that everything
is working properly:
Good. The compiler
seems to be working.
Now, let’s transfer the exploit code to
our Windows client and compile it.
Since the author did not include
any compilation instructions,
we will try to run gcc without
any arguments other than -o.
Despite two warning messages,
the exploit compiled successfully.
Now that we have compiled our
exploit we can transfer it
to our target machine
and attempt to run it.
In order to determine if our privilege
escalation is successful,
we will use the whoami command
before and after running our exploit:
Excellect! We have successfully
elevated our privileges from n00b
to nt authority\system,
which is the Windows account
with the highest privilege level.